>> Student: Are you gonna talk at
all about, I've had issues designing
stuff to where's that break,
when you resize the page?
And it's like okay, well this looks
really bad for a few seconds.
But how do you know how to,
where's that break where?
>> Jason Pamental: Well,
there's no hard and fast answer to that.
I think some of the techniques that we're
going to look at today will help, kind of,
mitigate some of those things.
But what will help, and
the question is really about managing
the true intent of even the origin
of the phrase break point was
referring to where is the design break.
And that's really,
that was the whole idea behind that term.
And we've kind of lost sight, I think
a little bit of adding in the tweaks.
So Jeremy Keith has written about
this quite a bit a while ago.
You might have a set of break points that
you use to govern how the layout changes.
But here might be points where the
typography is scaling in an awkward manor.
There's no harm in adding a few more.
So if you have a particular headline
where you start to have some issues.
There's no harm in actually
creating another break point and
applying it just for that element.
So that way, you can create a little
bit more in between points, or
as Jeremy called them, tweak points.
And that way, there's not really
a downside to performance.
Browsers are really good at
processing all this stuff now.
There's no downside to having 100 or
even 200 media queries in the CSS for
a page, it's all processed very quickly.
So adding in a few more here and
there for special cases is totally fine.
And that's really,
it's one of things that led me to what I'm
gonna show you later today,
is to actually to look at how things
my scale rather than have to
create all these break points.
But that's also predicated upon an
important concept that's a reality for me,
is that I work with
Content Management Systems.
So the design breaking with this
headline today is not the same,
the way it's gonna break tomorrow
with a different headline.
I mean, I know that all the public media.
We used to actually work with WGBH
in Boston, so that's a NPR station.
They publish literally hundreds
of pieces of content a day.
So there's no way that you could end up
tweaking things for every single headline.
That's actually one of the things that we
have to learn to embrace that we can't
control.
So there are little, a few techniques here
and there that we will look at that will
help make things work in
the context of a system.
So things like applying a fix
to a headline that will put
a non-breaking space
between the last two words.
So that you'll never get one word
bumping down, you'll get two, and
that will look a little bit more natural.
It's not an absolute, but some of
these things kind of layered together,
will create a more robust system that
will give you fewer headaches like that
at the in between points.